<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0"
  xml:lang="en-US"
>
  <head>
    <title>IV</title>
    <link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
    <section id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
      <h4>IV</h4>
      <p>
        In pleasant weather Judge Pommeroy walked to the Forresters', but on the
        occasion of the dinner for the Ogdens he engaged the liveryman to take
        him and his nephew over in one of the town hacks,—vehicles seldom used
        except for funerals and weddings. They smelled strongly of the stable
        and contained lap-robes as heavy as lead and as slippery as oiled paper.
        Niel and his uncle were the only townspeople asked to the Forresters'
        that evening; they rolled over the creek and up the hill in state, and
        emerged covered with horsehair.
      </p>
      <p>
        Captain Forrester met them at the door, his burly figure buttoned up in
        a frock coat, a flat collar and black string tie under the heavy folds
        of his neck. He was always clean-shaven except for a drooping
        dun-coloured moustache. The company stood behind him laughing while Niel
        caught up the whisk-broom and began dusting roan hairs off his uncle's
        broadcloth. Mrs. Forrester gave Niel a brushing in turn and then took
        him into the parlour and introduced him to Mrs. Ogden and her daughter.
      </p>
      <p>
        The daughter was a rather pretty girl, Niel thought, in a pale pink
        evening dress which left bare her smooth arms and short, dimpled neck.
        Her eyes were, as Mrs. Forrester had said, a china blue, rather
        prominent and inexpressive. Her fleece of ashy-gold hair was bound about
        her head with silver bands. In spite of her fresh, rose-like complexion,
        her face was not altogether agreeable. Two dissatisfied lines reached
        from the corners of her short nose to the corners of her mouth. When she
        was displeased, even a little, these lines tightened, drew her nose
        back, and gave her a suspicious, injured expression. Niel sat down by
        her and did his best, but he found her hard to talk to. She seemed
        nervous and distracted, kept glancing over her shoulder, and crushing
        her handkerchief up in her hands. Her mind, clearly, was elsewhere.
        After a few moments he turned to the mother, who was more easily
        interested.
      </p>
      <p>
        Mrs. Ogden was almost unpardonably homely. She had a pear-shaped face,
        and across her high forehead lay a row of flat, dry curls. Her bluish
        brown skin was almost the colour of her violet dinner dress. A diamond
        necklace glittered about her wrinkled throat. Unlike Constance, she
        seemed thoroughly amiable, but as she talked she tilted her head and
        "used" her eyes, availing herself of those arch glances which he had
        supposed only pretty women indulged in. Probably she had long been
        surrounded by people to whom she was an important personage, and had
        acquired the manner of a spoiled darling. Niel thought her rather
        foolish at first, but in a few moments he had got used to her mannerisms
        and began to like her. He found himself laughing heartily and forgot the
        discouragement of his failure with the daughter.
      </p>
      <p>
        Mr. Ogden, a short, weather-beaten man of fifty, with a cast in one eye,
        a stiff imperial, and twisted moustaches, was noticeably quieter and
        less expansive than when Niel had met him here on former occasions. He
        seemed to expect his wife to do the talking. When Mrs. Forrester
        addressed him, or passed near him, his good eye twinkled and followed
        her,—while the eye that looked askance remained unchanged and committed
        itself to nothing.
      </p>
      <p>
        Suddenly everyone became more lively; the air warmed, and the lamplight
        seemed to brighten, as a fourth member of the Denver party came in from
        the dining-room with a glittering tray full of cocktails he had been
        making. Frank Ellinger was a bachelor of forty, six feet two, with long
        straight legs, fine shoulders, and a figure that still permitted his
        white waistcoat to button without a wrinkle under his conspicuously
        well-cut dinner coat. His black hair, coarse and curly as the filling of
        a mattress, was grey about the ears, his florid face showed little
        purple veins about his beaked nose,—a nose like the prow of a ship, with
        long nostrils. His chin was deeply cleft, his thick curly lips seemed
        very muscular, very much under his control, and, with his strong white
        teeth, irregular and curved, gave him the look of a man who could bite
        an iron rod in two with a snap of his jaws. His whole figure seemed very
        much alive under his clothes, with a restless, muscular energy that had
        something of the cruelty of wild animals in it. Niel was very much
        interested in this man, the hero of many ambiguous stories. He didn't
        know whether he liked him or not. He knew nothing bad about him, but he
        felt something evil.
      </p>
      <p>
        The cocktails were the signal for general conversation, the company drew
        together in one group. Even Miss Constance seemed less dissatisfied.
        Ellinger drank his cocktail standing beside her chair, and offered her
        the cherry in his glass. They were old-fashioned whiskey cocktails.
        Nobody drank Martinis then; gin was supposed to be the consolation of
        sailors and inebriate scrub-women.
      </p>
      <p>
        "Very good, Frank, very good," Captain Forrester pronounced, drawing out
        a fresh, cologne-scented handkerchief to wipe his moustache. "Are
        encores in order?" The Captain puffed slightly when he talked. His eyes,
        always somewhat suffused and bloodshot since his injury, blinked at his
        friends from under his heavy lids.
      </p>
      <p>
        "One more round for everybody, Captain." Ellinger brought in from the
        sideboard a capacious shaker and refilled all the glasses except Miss
        Ogden's. At her he shook his finger, and offered her the little dish of
        Maraschino cherries.
      </p>
      <p>
        "No, I don't want those. I want the one in your glass," she said with a
        pouty smile. "I like it to taste of something!"
      </p>
      <p>
        "Constance!" said her mother reprovingly, rolling her eyes at Mrs.
        Forrester, as if to share with her the charm of such innocence.
      </p>
      <p>
        "Niel," Mrs. Forrester laughed, "won't you give the child your cherry,
        too?"
      </p>
      <p>
        Niel promptly crossed the room and proffered the cherry in the bottom of
        his glass. She took it with her thumb and fore-finger and dropped it
        into her own,—where, he was quick to observe, she left it when they went
        out to dinner. A stubborn piece of pink flesh, he decided, and certainly
        a fool about a man quite old enough to be her father. He sighed when he
        saw that he was placed next her at the dinner table.
      </p>
      <p>
        Captain Forrester still made a commanding figure at the head of his own
        table, with his napkin tucked under his chin and the work of carving
        well in hand. Nobody could lay bare the bones of a brace of duck or a
        twenty-pound turkey more deftly. "What part of the turkey do you prefer,
        Mrs. Ogden?" If one had a preference, it was gratified, with all the
        stuffing and gravy that went with it, and the vegetables properly
        placed. When a plate left Captain Forrester's hands, it was a dinner;
        the recipient was served, and well served. He served Mrs. Forrester last
        of the ladies but before the men, and to her, too, he said, "Mrs.
        Forrester, what part of the turkey shall I give you this evening?" He
        was a man who did not vary his formulae or his manners. He was no more
        mobile than his countenance. Niel and Judge Pommeroy had often remarked
        how much Captain Forrester looked like the pictures of Grover Cleveland.
        His clumsy dignity covered a deep nature, and a conscience that had
        never been juggled with. His repose was like that of a mountain. When he
        laid his fleshy, thick-fingered hand upon a frantic horse, an hysterical
        woman, an Irish workman out for blood, he brought them peace; something
        they could not resist. That had been the secret of his management of
        men. His sanity asked nothing, claimed nothing; it was so simple that it
        brought a hush over distracted creatures. In the old days, when he was
        building road in the Black Hills, trouble sometimes broke out in camp
        when he was absent, staying with Mrs. Forrester at Colorado Springs. He
        would put down the telegram that announced an insurrection and say to
        his wife, "Maidy, I must go to the men." And that was all he did,—he
        went to them.
      </p>
      <p>
        While the Captain was intent upon his duties as host he talked very
        little, and Judge Pommeroy and Ellinger kept a lively cross-fire of
        amusing stories going. Niel, sitting opposite Ellinger, watched him
        closely. He still couldn't decide whether he liked him or not. In Denver
        Frank was known as a prince of good fellows; tactful, generous,
        resourceful, though apt to trim his sails to the wind; a man who
        good-humouredly bowed to the inevitable, or to the almost-inevitable. He
        had, when he was younger, been notoriously "wild," but that was not held
        against him, even by mothers with marriageable daughters, like Mrs.
        Ogden. Morals were different in those days. Niel had heard his uncle
        refer to Ellinger's youthful infatuation with a woman called Nell
        Emerald, a handsome and rather unusual woman who conducted a house
        properly licensed by the Denver police. Nell Emerald had told an old
        club man that though she had been out behind young Ellinger's new
        trotting horse, she "had no respect for a man who would go driving with
        a prostitute in broad daylight." This story and a dozen like it were
        often related of Ellinger, and the women laughed over them as heartily
        as the men. All the while that he was making a scandalous chronicle for
        himself, young Ellinger had been devotedly caring for an invalid mother,
        and he was described to strangers as a terribly fast young man and a
        model son. That combination pleased the taste of the time. Nobody
        thought the worse of him. Now that his mother was dead, he lived at the
        Brown Palace hotel, though he still kept her house at Colorado Springs.
      </p>
      <p>
        When the roast was well under way, Black Tom, very formal in a white
        waistcoat and high collar, poured the champagne. Captain Forrester
        lifted his glass, the frail stem between his thick fingers, and glancing
        round the table at his guests and at Mrs. Forrester, said:
      </p>
      <p>"Happy days!"</p>
      <p>
        It was the toast he always drank at dinner, the invocation he was sure
        to utter when he took a glass of whiskey with an old friend. Whoever had
        heard him say it once, liked to hear him say it again. Nobody else could
        utter those two words as he did, with such gravity and high courtesy. It
        seemed a solemn moment, seemed to knock at the door of Fate; behind
        which all days, happy and otherwise, were hidden. Niel drank his wine
        with a pleasant shiver, thinking that nothing else made life seem so
        precarious, the future so cryptic and unfathomable, as that brief toast
        uttered by the massive man, "Happy days!"
      </p>
      <p>
        Mrs. Ogden turned to the host with her most languishing smile: "Captain
        Forrester, I want you to tell Constance"— (She was an East Virginia
        woman, and what she really said was, "Cap'n Forrester, Ah wan' yew to
        tell, etc." Her vowels seemed to roll about in the same way her eyes
        did.)—"I want you to tell Constance about how you first found this
        lovely spot, 'way back in Indian times."
      </p>
      <p>
        The Captain looked down the table between the candles at Mrs. Forrester,
        as if to consult her. She smiled and nodded, and her beautiful earrings
        swung beside her pale cheeks. She was wearing her diamonds tonight, and
        a black velvet gown. Her husband had archaic ideas about jewels; a man
        bought them for his wife in acknowledgment of things he could not
        gracefully utter. They must be costly; they must show that he was able
        to buy them, and that she was worthy to wear them.
      </p>
      <p>
        With her approval the Captain began his narrative: a concise account of
        how he came West a young boy, after serving in the Civil War, and took a
        job as driver for a freighting company that carried supplies across the
        plains from Nebraska City to Cherry Creek, as Denver was then called.
        The freighters, after embarking in that sea of grass six hundred miles
        in width, lost all count of the days of the week and the month. One day
        was like another, and all were glorious; good hunting, plenty of
        antelope and buffalo, boundless sunny sky, boundless plains of waving
        grass, long fresh-water lagoons yellow with lagoon flowers, where the
        bison in their periodic migrations stopped to drink and bathe and
        wallow.
      </p>
      <p>
        "An ideal life for a young man," the Captain pronounced. Once, when he
        was driven out of the trail by a wash-out, he rode south on his horse to
        explore, and found an Indian encampment near the Sweet Water, on this
        very hill where his house now stood. He was, he said, "greatly taken
        with the location," and made up his mind that he would one day have a
        house there. He cut down a young willow tree and drove the stake into
        the ground to mark the spot where he wished to build. He went away and
        did not come back for many years; he was helping to lay the first
        railroad across the plains.
      </p>
      <p>
        "There were those that were dependent on me," he said. "I had sickness
        to contend with, and responsibilities. But in all those years I expect
        there was hardly a day passed that I did not remember the Sweet Water
        and this hill. When I came here a young man, I had planned it in my
        mind, pretty much as it is to-day; where I would dig my well, and where
        I would plant my grove and my orchard. I planned to build a house that
        my friends could come to, with a wife like Mrs. Forrester to make it
        attractive to them. I used to promise myself that some day I would
        manage it." This part of the story the Captain told not with
        embarrassment, but with reserve, choosing his words slowly, absently
        cracking English walnuts with his strong fingers and heaping a little
        hoard of kernels beside his plate. His friends understood that he was
        referring to his first marriage, to the poor invalid wife who had never
        been happy and who had kept his nose to the grindstone.
      </p>
      <p>
        "When things looked most discouraging," he went on, "I came back here
        once and bought the place from the railroad company. They took my note.
        I found my willow stake,—it had rooted and grown into a tree,—and I
        planted three more to mark the corners of my house. Twelve years later
        Mrs. Forrester came here with me, shortly after our marriage, and we
        built our house." Captain Forrester puffed from time to time, but his
        clear account commanded attention. Something in the way he uttered his
        unornamented phrases gave them the impressiveness of inscriptions cut in
        stone.
      </p>
      <p>
        Mrs. Forrester nodded at him from her end of the table. "And now, tell
        us your philosophy of life,—this is where it comes in," she laughed
        teasingly.
      </p>
      <p>
        The Captain coughed and looked abashed. "I was intending to omit that
        tonight. Some of our guests have already heard it."
      </p>
      <p>
        "No, no. It belongs at the end of the story, and if some of us have
        heard it, we can hear it again. Go on!"
      </p>
      <p>
        "Well, then, my philosophy is that what you think of and plan for day by
        day, in spite of yourself, so to speak—you will get. You will get it
        more or less. That is, unless you are one of the people who get nothing
        in this world. There are such people. I have lived too much in mining
        works and construction camps not to know that." He paused as if, though
        this was too dark a chapter to be gone into, it must have its place, its
        moment of silent recognition. "If you are not one of those, Constance
        and Niel, you will accomplish what you dream of most."
      </p>
      <p>
        "And why? That's the interesting part of it," his wife prompted him.
      </p>
      <p>
        "Because," he roused himself from his abstraction and looked about at
        the company, "because a thing that is dreamed of in the way I mean, is
        already an accomplished fact. All our great West has been developed from
        such dreams; the homesteader's and the prospector's and the
        contractor's. We dreamed the railroads across the mountains, just as I
        dreamed my place on the Sweet Water. All these things will be everyday
        facts to the coming generation, but to us—" Captain Forrester ended with
        a sort of grunt. Something forbidding had come into his voice, the
        lonely, defiant note that is so often heard in the voices of old
        Indians.
      </p>
      <p>
        Mrs. Ogden had listened to the story with such sympathy that Niel liked
        her better than ever, and even the preoccupied Constance seemed able to
        give it her attention. They rose from the dessert and went into the
        parlour to arrange the card tables. The Captain still played whist as
        well as ever. As he brought out a box of his best cigars, he paused
        before Mrs. Ogden and said, "Is smoke offensive to you, Mrs. Ogden?"
        When she protested that it was not, he crossed the room to where
        Constance was talking with Ellinger and asked with the same grave
        courtesy, "Is smoke offensive to you, Constance?" Had there been half a
        dozen women present, he would have asked that question of each,
        probably, and in the same words. It did not bother him to repeat a
        phrase. If an expression answered his purpose, he saw no reason for
        varying it.
      </p>
      <p>
        Mrs. Forrester and Mr. Ogden were to play against Mrs. Ogden and the
        Captain. "Constance," said Mrs. Forrester as she sat down, "will you
        play with Niel? I'm told he's very good."
      </p>
      <p>
        Miss Ogden's short nose flickered up, the lines on either side of it
        deepened, and she again looked injured. Niel was sure she detested him.
        He was not going to be done in by her.
      </p>
      <p>
        "Miss Ogden," he said as he stood beside his chair, deliberately
        shuffling a pack of cards, "my uncle and I are used to playing together,
        and probably you are used to playing with Mr. Ellinger. Suppose we try
        that combination?"
      </p>
      <p>
        She gave him a quick, suspicious glance from under her yellow eyelashes
        and flung herself into a chair without so much as answering him. Frank
        Ellinger came in from the dining-room, where he had been sampling the
        Captain's French brandy, and took the vacant seat opposite Miss Ogden.
        "So it's you and me, Connie? Good enough!" he exclaimed, cutting the
        pack Niel pushed toward him.
      </p>
      <p>
        Just before midnight Black Tom opened the door and announced that the
        egg-nog was ready. The card players went into the dining-room, where the
        punch-bowl stood smoking on the table.
      </p>
      <p>
        "Constance," said Captain Forrester, "do you sing? I like to hear one of
        the old songs with the egg-nog."
      </p>
      <p>"Ah'm sorry, Cap'n Forrester. Ah really haven't any voice."</p>
      <p>
        Niel noticed that whenever Constance spoke to the Captain she strained
        her throat, though he wasn't in the least deaf. He broke in over her
        refusal. "Uncle can start a song if you coax him, sir."
      </p>
      <p>
        Judge Pommeroy, after smoothing his silver whiskers and coughing, began
        "Auld Lang Syne." The others joined in, but they hadn't got to the end
        of it when a hollow rumbling down on the bridge made them laugh, and
        everyone ran to the front windows to see the Judge's funeral coach come
        lurching up the hill, with only one of the side lanterns lit. Mrs.
        Forrester sent Tom out with a drink for the driver. While Niel and his
        uncle were putting on their overcoats in the hall, she came up to them
        and whispered coaxingly to the boy, "Remember, you are coming over
        tomorrow, at two? I am planning a drive, and I want you to amuse
        Constance for me."
      </p>
      <p>
        Niel bit his lip and looked down into Mrs. Forrester's laughing,
        persuasive eyes. "I'll do it for you, but that's the only reason," he
        said threateningly.
      </p>
      <p>"I understand, for me! I'll credit it to your account."</p>
      <p>
        The Judge and his nephew rolled away on swaying springs. The Ogdens
        retired to their rooms upstairs. Mrs. Forrester went to help the Captain
        divest himself of his frock coat, and put it away for him. Ever since he
        was hurt he had to be propped high on pillows at night, and he slept in
        a narrow iron bed, in the alcove which had formerly been his wife's
        dressing-room. While he was undressing he breathed heavily and sighed,
        as if he were very tired. He fumbled with his studs, then blew on his
        fingers and tried again. His wife came to his aid and quickly unbuttoned
        everything. He did not thank her in words, but submitted gratefully.
      </p>
      <p>
        When the iron bed creaked at receiving his heavy figure, she called from
        the big bedroom, "Good-night, Mr. Forrester," and drew the heavy
        curtains that shut off the alcove. She took off her rings and earrings
        and was beginning to unfasten her black velvet bodice when, at a tinkle
        of glass from without, she stopped short. Re-hooking the shoulder of her
        gown, she went to the dining-room, now faintly lit by the coal fire in
        the back parlour. Frank Ellinger was standing at the sideboard, taking a
        nightcap. The Forrester French brandy was old, and heavy like a cordial.
      </p>
      <p>
        "Be careful," she murmured as she approached him, "I have a distinct
        impression that there is some one on the enclosed stairway. There is a
        wide crack in the door. Ah, but kittens have claws, these days! Pour me
        just a little. Thank you. I'll have mine in by the fire."
      </p>
      <p>
        He followed her into the next room, where she stood by the grate,
        looking at him in the light of the pale blue flames that ran over the
        fresh coal, put on to keep the fire.
      </p>
      <p>
        "You've had a good many brandies, Frank," she said, studying his
        flushed, masterful face.
      </p>
      <p>"Not too many. I'll need them . . . tonight," he replied meaningly.</p>
      <p>
        She nervously brushed back a lock of hair that had come down a little.
        "It's not tonight. It's morning. Go to bed and sleep as late as you
        please. Take care, I heard silk stockings on the stairs. Good-night."
        She put her hand on the sleeve of his coat; the white fingers clung to
        the black cloth as bits of paper cling to magnetized iron. Her touch,
        soft as it was, went through the man, all the feet and inches of him.
        His broad shoulders lifted on a deep breath. He looked down at her.
      </p>
      <p>
        Her eyes fell. "Good-night," she said faintly. As she turned quickly
        away, the train of her velvet dress caught the leg of his broadcloth
        trousers and dragged with a friction that crackled and threw sparks.
        Both started. They stood looking at each other for a moment before she
        actually slipped through the door. Ellinger remained by the hearth, his
        arms folded tight over his chest, his curly lips compressed, frowning
        into the fire.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
