<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0"
  xml:lang="en-US"
>
  <head>
    <title>IX</title>
    <link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
    <section id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
      <h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h2>
      <p>
        After three weeks the Captain was up and around again. He dragged his
        left foot, and his left arm was uncertain. Though he recovered his
        speech, it was thick and clouded; some words he could not pronounce
        distinctly⁠—slid over them, dropped out a syllable. Therefore he avoided
        talking even more than was his habit. The doctor said that unless
        another brain lesion occurred, he might get on comfortably for some
        years yet.
      </p>
      <p>
        In August Niel was to go to Boston to begin coaching for his entrance
        examinations at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he
        meant to study architecture. He put off bidding the Forresters good-bye
        until the very day before he left. His last call was different from any
        he had ever made there before. Already they began to treat him like a
        young man. He sat rather stiffly in that parlour where he had been so
        much at home. The Captain was in his big chair in the bay window, in the
        full glow of the afternoon sun, saying little, but very friendly.
        <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester, on the sofa in the shadowy corner of the
        room, talked about Niel’s plans and his journey.
      </p>
      <p>
        “Is it true that Mary is going to marry Pucelik this fall?” he asked
        her. “Who will you get to help you?”
      </p>
      <p>
        “No one, for the present. Ben will do all I can’t do. Never mind us. We
        will pass a quiet winter, like an old country couple⁠—as we are!” she
        said lightly.
      </p>
      <p>
        Niel knew that she faced the winter with terror, but he had never seen
        her more in command of herself⁠—or more the mistress of her own house
        than now, when she was preparing to become the servant of it. He had the
        feeling, which he never used to have, that her lightness cost her
        something.
      </p>
      <p>
        “Don’t forget us, but don’t mope. Make lots of new friends. You’ll never
        be twenty again. Take a chorus girl out to supper⁠—a pretty one, mind!
        Don’t bother about your allowance. If you got into a scrape, we could
        manage a little cheque to help you out, couldn’t we,
        <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Forrester?”
      </p>
      <p>
        The Captain puffed and looked amused. “I think we could, Niel, I think
        so. Don’t get up, my boy. You must stay to dinner.”
      </p>
      <p>
        Niel said he couldn’t. He hadn’t finished packing, and he was leaving on
        the morning train.
      </p>
      <p>
        “Then we must have a little something before you go.” Captain Forrester
        rose heavily, with the aid of his cane, and went into the dining-room.
        He brought back the decanter and filled three glasses with ceremony.
        Lifting his glass, he paused, as always, and blinked.
      </p>
      <p>“Happy days!”</p>
      <p>
        “Happy days!” echoed <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester, with her loveliest
        smile, “and every success to Niel!”
      </p>
      <p>
        Both the Captain and his wife came to the door with him, and stood there
        on the porch together, where he had so often seen them stand to speed
        the parting guest. He went down the hill touched and happy. As he passed
        over the bridge his spirits suddenly fell. Would that chilling doubt
        always lie in wait for him, down there in the mud, where he had thrown
        his roses one morning?
      </p>
      <p>
        He burned to ask her one question, to get the truth out of her and set
        his mind at rest: What did she do with all her exquisiteness when she
        was with a man like Ellinger? Where did she put it away? And having put
        it away, how could she recover herself, and give one⁠—give even him⁠—the
        sense of tempered steel, a blade that could fence with anyone and never
        break?
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
