<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html
 xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
 xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
 epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0"
 xml:lang="en-US"
>
 <head>
 <title>XII</title>
 <link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
 <link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
 </head>
 <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
 <section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
 <h4>III</h4>
 <p>
 Niel had planned to do a great deal of reading in the Forresters’ grove
 that summer, but he did not go over so often as he had intended. The
 frequent appearance of Ivy Peters about the place irritated him. Ivy
 visited his new wheat fields on the bottom land very often; and he
 always took the old path, that led from what was once the marsh, up the
 steep bank and through the grove. He was likely to appear at any hour,
 his trousers stuffed into his top-boots, tramping along between the rows
 of trees with an air of proprietorship. He shut the gate behind the
 house with a slam and went whistling through the yard. Often he stopped
 at the kitchen door to call out some pleasantry to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester. This
 annoyed Niel, for at that hour of the morning, when she was doing her
 housework, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester was not dressed to receive her inferiors. It
 was one thing to greet the president of the Colorado &amp; Utah
 <i>en déshabille</i>, but it was another to chatter with a
 coarse-grained fellow like Ivy Peters in her wrapper and slippers, her
 sleeves rolled up and her throat bare to his cool, impudent eyes.
 </p>
 <p>
 Sometimes Ivy strode through the rose plot where Captain Forrester was
 sitting in the sun⁠—went by without looking at him, as if there were no
 one there. If he spoke to the Captain at all, he did so as if he were
 addressing someone incapable of understanding anything. “Hullo, Captain,
 ain’t afraid this sun will spoil your complexion?” or “Well, Captain,
 you’ll have to get the prayer-meetings to take up this rain question.
 The drought’s damned bad for my wheat.”
 </p>
 <p>
 One morning, as Niel was coming up through the grove, he heard laughter
 by the gate, and there he saw Ivy, with his gun, talking to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester. She was bareheaded, her skirts blowing in the wind, her arm
 through the handle of a big tin bucket that rested on the fence beside
 her. Ivy stood with his hat on his head, but there was in his attitude
 that unmistakable something which shows that a man is trying to make
 himself agreeable to a woman. He was telling her a funny story, probably
 an improper one, for it brought out her naughtiest laugh, with something
 nervous and excited in it, as if he were going too far. At the end of
 his story Ivy himself broke into his farm-hand guffaw. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester
 shook her finger at him and, catching up her pail, ran back into the
 house. She bent a little with its weight, but Ivy made no offer to carry
 it for her. He let her trip away with it as if she were a kitchen maid,
 and that were her business.
 </p>
 <p>
 Niel emerged from the grove, and stopped where the Captain sat in the
 garden. “Good-morning, Captain Forrester. Was that Ivy Peters who just
 went through here? That fellow hasn’t the manners of a pig!” he blurted
 out.
 </p>
 <p>
 The Captain pointed to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester’s empty chair. “Sit down, Niel,
 sit down.” He drew his handkerchief from his pocket and began polishing
 his glasses. “No,” he said quietly, “he ain’t overly polite.”
 </p>
 <p>
 More than if he had complained bitterly, that guarded admission made one
 feel how much he had been hurt and offended by Ivy’s rudeness. There was
 something very sad in his voice, and helpless. From his equals, respect
 had always come to him as his due; from fellows like Ivy he had been
 able to command it⁠—to order them off his place, or dismiss them from
 his employ.
 </p>
 <p>
 Niel sat down and smoked a cigar with him. They had a long talk about
 the building of the Black Hills branch of the Burlington. In Boston last
 winter Niel had met an old mine-owner, who was living in Deadwood when
 the railroad first came in. When Niel asked him if he had known Daniel
 Forrester, the old gentleman said, “Forrester? Was he the one with the
 beautiful wife?”
 </p>
 <p>
 “You must tell her,” said the Captain, stroking the warm surface of his
 sun-dial. “Yes, indeed. You must tell <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester.”
 </p>
 <p>
 <br />
 </p>
 <p>
 One night in the first week of July, a night of glorious moonlight, Niel
 found himself unable to read, or to stay indoors at all. He walked
 aimlessly down the wide, empty street, and crossed the first creek by
 the foot-bridge. The wide ripe fields, the whole country, seemed like a
 sleeping garden. One trod the dusty roads softly, not to disturb the
 deep slumber of the world.
 </p>
 <p>
 In the Forrester lane the scent of sweet clover hung heavy. It had
 always grown tall and green here ever since Niel could remember; the
 Captain would never let it be cut until the weeds were mowed in the
 fall. The black, plume-like shadows of the poplars fell across the lane
 and over Ivy Peters’ wheat fields. As he walked on, Niel saw a white
 figure standing on the bridge over the second creek, motionless in the
 clear moonlight. He hurried forward. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester was looking down at
 the water where it flowed bright over the pebbles. He came up beside
 her. “The Captain is asleep?”
 </p>
 <p>
 “Oh, yes, long ago! He sleeps well, thank heaven! After I tuck him in, I
 have nothing more to worry about.”
 </p>
 <p>
 While they were standing there, talking in low voices, they heard a
 heavy door slam on the hill. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester started and looked back over
 her shoulder. A man emerged from the shadow of the house and came
 striding down the driveway. Ivy Peters stepped upon the bridge.
 </p>
 <p>
 “Good evening,” he said to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester, neither calling her by name
 nor removing his hat. “I see you have company. I’ve just been up looking
 at the old barn, to see if the stalls are fit to put horses in there
 tomorrow. I’m going to start cutting wheat in the morning, and we’ll
 have to put the horses in your stable at noon. We’d lose time taking
 them back to town.”
 </p>
 <p>
 “Why, certainly. The horses can go in our barn. I’m sure <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Forrester
 would have no objection.” She spoke as if he had asked her permission.
 </p>
 <p>
 “Oh!” Ivy shrugged. “The men will begin down here at six o’clock. I
 won’t get over till about ten, and I have to meet a client at my office
 at three. Maybe you could give me some lunch, to save time.”
 </p>
 <p>
 His impudence made her smile. “Very well, then; I invite you to lunch.
 We lunch at one.”
 </p>
 <p>
 “Thanks. It will help me out.” As if he had forgotten himself, he lifted
 his hat, and went down the lane swinging it in his hand.
 </p>
 <p>
 Niel stood looking after him. “Why do you allow him to speak to you like
 that, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester? If you’ll let me, I’ll give him a beating and
 teach him how to speak to you.”
 </p>
 <p>
 “No, no, Niel! Remember, we have to get along with Ivy Peters, we simply
 have to!” There was a note of anxiety in her voice, and she caught his
 arm.
 </p>
 <p>
 “You don’t have to take anything from him, or to stand his bad manners.
 Anybody else would pay you as much for the land as he does.”
 </p>
 <p>
 “But he has a lease for five years, and he could make it very
 disagreeable for us, don’t you see? Besides,” she spoke hurriedly,
 “there’s more than that. He’s invested a little money for me in Wyoming,
 in land. He gets splendid land from the Indians some way, for next to
 nothing. Don’t tell your uncle; I’ve no doubt it’s crooked. But the
 Judge is like <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Forrester; his methods don’t work nowadays. He will
 never get us out of debt, dear man! He can’t get himself out. Ivy Peters
 is terribly smart, you know. He owns half the town already.”
 </p>
 <p>
 “Not quite,” said Niel grimly. “He’s got hold of a good deal of
 property. He’ll take advantage of anybody’s necessity. You know he’s
 utterly unscrupulous, don’t you? Why didn’t you let <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Dalzell, or some
 of your other old friends, invest your money for you?”
 </p>
 <p>
 “Oh, it was too little! Only a few hundred dollars I’d saved on the
 housekeeping. They would put it into something safe, at six per cent. I
 know you don’t like Ivy⁠—and he knows it! He’s always at his worst
 before you. He’s not so bad as⁠—as his face, for instance!” She laughed
 nervously. “He honestly wants to help us out of the hole we’re in.
 Coming and going all the time, as he does, he sees everything, and I
 really think he hates to have me work so hard.”
 </p>
 <p>
 “Next time you have anything to invest, you let me take it to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Dalzell and explain. I’ll promise to do as well by you as Ivy Peters
 can.”
 </p>
 <p>
 <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester took his arm and drew him into the lane. “But, my dear
 boy, you know nothing about these business schemes. You’re not clever
 that way⁠—it’s one of the things I love you for. I don’t admire people
 who cheat Indians. Indeed I don’t!” She shook her head vehemently.
 </p>
 <p>
 “<abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester, rascality isn’t the only thing that succeeds in
 business.”
 </p>
 <p>
 “It succeeds faster than anything else, though,” she murmured absently.
 They walked as far as the end of the lane and turned back again. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester’s hand tightened on his arm. She began speaking abruptly. “You
 see, two years, three years, more of this, and I could still go back to
 California⁠—and live again. But after that⁠ ⁠… Perhaps people think
 I’ve settled down to grow old gracefully, but I’ve not. I feel such a
 power to live in me, Niel.” Her slender fingers gripped his wrist. “It’s
 grown by being held back. Last winter I was with the Dalzells at
 Glenwood Springs for three weeks (I owe <i>that</i> to Ivy Peters; he
 looked after things here, and his sister kept house for <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Forrester),
 and I was surprised at myself. I could dance all night and not feel
 tired. I could ride horseback all day and be ready for a dinner party in
 the evening. I had no clothes, of course; old evening dresses with yards
 and yards of satin and velvet in them, that <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Dalzell’s sewing woman
 made over. But I looked well enough! Yes, I did. I always know how I’m
 looking, and I looked well enough. The men thought so. I looked happier
 than any woman there. They were nearly all younger, much. But they
 seemed dull, bored to death. After a glass or two of champagne they went
 to sleep and had nothing to say! I always look better after the first
 glass⁠—it gives me a little colour, it’s the only thing that does. I
 accepted the Dalzell’s invitation with a purpose; I wanted to see
 whether I had anything left worth saving. And I have, I tell you! You
 would hardly believe it, I could hardly believe it, but I still have!”
 </p>
 <p>
 By this time they had reached the bridge, a bare white floor in the
 moonlight. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester had been quickening her pace all the while.
 “So that’s what I’m struggling for, to get out of this hole,”⁠—she looked
 about as if she had fallen into a deep well⁠—“out of it! When I’m alone
 here for months together, I plan and plot. If it weren’t for that⁠—”
 </p>
 <p>
 As Niel walked back to his room behind the law offices, he felt
 frightened for her. When women began to talk about still feeling young,
 didn’t it mean that something had broken? Two or three years, she said.
 He shivered. Only yesterday old <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Dennison had proudly told him that
 Captain Forrester might live a dozen. “We are keeping his general health
 up remarkably, and he was originally a man of iron.”
 </p>
 <p>
 What hope was there for her? He could still feel her hand upon his arm,
 as she urged him faster and faster up the lane.
 </p>
 </section>
 </body>
</html>
