<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0"
  xml:lang="en-US"
>
  <head>
    <title epub:type="z3998:roman">I</title>
    <link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
    <section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter1-1" epub:type="chapter">
      <h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
      <p>
        Thirty or forty years ago, in one of those grey towns along the
        Burlington railroad, which are so much greyer today than they were
        then, there was a house well known from Omaha to Denver for its
        hospitality and for a certain charm of atmosphere. Well known, that is
        to say, to the railroad aristocracy of that time; men who had to do with
        the railroad itself, or with one of the “land companies” which were its
        by-products. In those days it was enough to say of a man that he was
        “connected with the Burlington.” There were the directors, the general
        managers, vice-presidents, superintendents, whose names we all knew; and
        their younger brothers or nephews were auditors, freight agents,
        departmental assistants. Everyone “connected” with the Road, even the
        large cattle and grain-shippers, had annual passes; they and their
        families rode about over the line a great deal. There were then two
        distinct social strata in the prairie States; the homesteaders and
        hand-workers who were there to make a living, and the bankers and
        gentlemen ranchers who came from the Atlantic seaboard to invest money
        and to “develop our great West,” as they used to tell us.
      </p>
      <p>
        When the Burlington men were travelling back and forth on business not
        very urgent, they found it agreeable to drop off the express and spend a
        night in a pleasant house where their importance was delicately
        recognized; and no house was pleasanter than that of Captain Daniel
        Forrester, at Sweet Water. Captain Forrester was himself a railroad man,
        a contractor, who had built hundreds of miles of road for the
        Burlington⁠—over the sage brush and cattle country, and on up into the
        Black Hills.
      </p>
      <p>
        The Forrester place, as every one called it, was not at all remarkable;
        the people who lived there made it seem much larger and finer than it
        was. The house stood on a low round hill, nearly a mile east of town; a
        white house with a wing, and sharp-sloping roofs to shed the snow. It
        was encircled by porches, too narrow for modern notions of comfort,
        supported by the fussy, fragile pillars of that time, when every honest
        stick of timber was tortured by the turning-lathe into something
        hideous. Stripped of its vines and denuded of its shrubbery, the house
        would probably have been ugly enough. It stood close into a fine
        cottonwood grove that threw sheltering arms to left and right and grew
        all down the hillside behind it. Thus placed on the hill, against its
        bristling grove, it was the first thing one saw on coming into Sweet
        Water by rail, and the last thing one saw on departing.
      </p>
      <p>
        To approach Captain Forrester’s property, you had first to get over a
        wide, sandy creek which flowed along the eastern edge of the town.
        Crossing this by the footbridge or the ford, you entered the Captain’s
        private lane, bordered by Lombardy poplars, with wide meadows lying on
        either side. Just at the foot of the hill on which the house sat, one
        crossed a second creek by the stout wooden road-bridge. This stream
        traced artless loops and curves through the broad meadows that were half
        pasture land, half marsh. Any one but Captain Forrester would have
        drained the bottom land and made it into highly productive fields. But
        he had selected this place long ago because it looked beautiful to him,
        and he happened to like the way the creek wound through his pasture,
        with mint and joint-grass and twinkling willows along its banks. He was
        well off for those times, and he had no children. He could afford to
        humour his fancies.
      </p>
      <p>
        When the Captain drove friends from Omaha or Denver over from the
        station in his democrat wagon, it gratified him to hear these gentlemen
        admire his fine stock, grazing in the meadows on either side of his
        lane. And when they reached the top of the hill, it gratified him to see
        men who were older than himself leap nimbly to the ground and run up the
        front steps as <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester came out on the porch to
        greet them. Even the hardest and coldest of his friends, a certain
        narrow-faced Lincoln banker, became animated when he took her hand,
        tried to meet the gay challenge in her eyes and to reply cleverly to the
        droll word of greeting on her lips.
      </p>
      <p>
        She was always there, just outside the front door, to welcome their
        visitors, having been warned of their approach by the sound of hoofs and
        the rumble of wheels on the wooden bridge. If she happened to be in the
        kitchen, helping her Bohemian cook, she came out in her apron, waving a
        buttery iron spoon, or shook cherry-stained fingers at the new arrival.
        She never stopped to pin up a lock; she was attractive in dishabille,
        and she knew it. She had been known to rush to the door in her
        dressing-gown, brush in hand and her long black hair rippling over her
        shoulders, to welcome Cyrus Dalzell, president of the Colorado &amp;
        Utah; and that great man had never felt more flattered. In his eyes, and
        in the eyes of the admiring middle-aged men who visited there, whatever
        <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester chose to do was “ladylike” because she did
        it. They could not imagine her in any dress or situation in which she
        would not be charming. Captain Forrester himself, a man of few words,
        told Judge Pommeroy that he had never seen her look more captivating
        than on the day when she was chased by the new bull in the pasture. She
        had forgotten about the bull and gone into the meadow to gather wild
        flowers. He heard her scream, and as he ran puffing down the hill, she
        was scudding along the edge of the marshes like a hare, beside herself
        with laughter, and stubbornly clinging to the crimson parasol that had
        made all the trouble.
      </p>
      <p>
        <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester was twenty-five years younger than her
        husband, and she was his second wife. He married her in California and
        brought her to Sweet Water a bride. They called the place home even
        then, when they lived there but a few months out of each year. But
        later, after the Captain’s terrible fall with his horse in the
        mountains, which broke him so that he could no longer build railroads,
        he and his wife retired to the house on the hill. He grew old there⁠—and
        even she, alas! grew older.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
