<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0"
  xml:lang="en-US"
>
  <head>
    <title epub:type="z3998:roman">I</title>
    <link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
    <section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter2-1" epub:type="chapter">
      <h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
      <p>
        It was two years before Niel Herbert came home again, and when he came
        the first acquaintance he met was Ivy Peters. Ivy got on the train at
        one of the little stations east of Sweet Water, where he had been trying
        a case. As he strolled through the Pullman he noticed among the
        passengers a young man in a grey flannel suit, with a silk shirt of one
        shade of blue and a necktie of another. After regarding this urban
        figure from the rear for a few seconds, Ivy glanced down at his own
        clothes with gloating satisfaction. It was a hot day in June, but he
        wore the black felt hat and ready-made coat of winter weight he had
        always affected as a boy. He stepped forward, his hands thrust in his
        pockets.
      </p>
      <p>“Hullo, Niel. Thought I couldn’t be mistaken.”</p>
      <p>
        Niel looked up and saw the red, bee-stung face, with its two permanent
        dimples, smiling down at him in contemptuous jocularity.
      </p>
      <p>“Hello, Ivy. I couldn’t be mistaken in you, either.”</p>
      <p>“Coming home to go into business?”</p>
      <p>Niel replied that he was coming only for the summer vacation.</p>
      <p>
        “Oh, you’re not through school yet? I suppose it takes longer to make an
        architect than it does to make a shyster. Just as well; there’s not much
        building going on in Sweet Water these days. You’ll find a good many
        changes.”
      </p>
      <p>
        “Won’t you sit down?” Niel indicated the neighbouring chair. “You are
        practising law?”
      </p>
      <p>
        “Yes, along with a few other things. Have to keep more than one iron in
        the fire to make a living with us. I farm a little on the side. I rent
        that meadow-land on the Forrester place. I’ve drained the old marsh and
        put it into wheat. My brother John does the work, and I boss the job.
        It’s quite profitable. I pay them a good rent, and they need it. I doubt
        if they could get along without. Their influential friends don’t seem to
        help them out much. Remember all those chesty old boys the Captain used
        to drive about in his democrat wagon, and ship in barrels of Bourbon
        for? Good deal of bluff about all those old-timers. The panic put them
        out of the game. The Forresters have come down in the world like the
        rest. You remember how the old man used to put it over us kids and not
        let us carry a gun in there? I’m just mean enough to like to shoot along
        that creek a little better than anywhere else, now. There wasn’t any
        harm in the old Captain, but he had the delusion of grandeur. He’s
        happier now that he’s like the rest of us and don’t have to change his
        shirt every day.” Ivy’s unblinking greenish eyes rested upon Niel’s
        haberdashery.
      </p>
      <p>
        Niel, however, did not notice this. He knew that Ivy wanted him to show
        disappointment, and he was determined not to do so. He enquired about
        the Captain’s health, pointedly keeping <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester’s
        name out of the conversation.
      </p>
      <p>
        “He’s only about half there⁠ ⁠… seems contented enough.⁠ ⁠… She takes
        good care of him, I’ll say that for her.⁠ ⁠… She seeks consolation,
        always did, you know⁠ ⁠… too much French brandy⁠ ⁠… but she never
        neglects him. I don’t blame her. Real work comes hard on her.”
      </p>
      <p>
        Niel heard these remarks dully, through the buzz of an idea. He felt
        that Ivy had drained the marsh quite as much to spite him and
        <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester as to reclaim the land. Moreover, he seemed
        to know that until this moment Ivy himself had not realized how much
        that consideration weighed with him. He and Ivy had disliked each other
        from childhood, blindly, instinctively, recognizing each other through
        antipathy, as hostile insects do. By draining the marsh Ivy had
        obliterated a few acres of something he hated, though he could not name
        it, and had asserted his power over the people who had loved those
        unproductive meadows for their idleness and silvery beauty.
      </p>
      <p>
        After Ivy had gone on into the smoker, Niel sat looking out at the
        windings of the Sweet Water and playing with his idea. The Old West had
        been settled by dreamers, greathearted adventurers who were unpractical
        to the point of magnificence; a courteous brotherhood, strong in attack
        but weak in defence, who could conquer but could not hold. Now all the
        vast territory they had won was to be at the mercy of men like Ivy
        Peters, who had never dared anything, never risked anything. They would
        drink up the mirage, dispel the morning freshness, root out the great
        brooding spirit of freedom, the generous, easy life of the great
        landholders. The space, the colour, the princely carelessness of the
        pioneer they would destroy and cut up into profitable bits, as the match
        factory splinters the primeval forest. All the way from the Missouri to
        the mountains this generation of shrewd young men, trained to petty
        economies by hard times, would do exactly what Ivy Peters had done when
        he drained the Forrester marsh.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
