<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0"
  xml:lang="en-US"
>
  <head>
    <title epub:type="z3998:roman">VI</title>
    <link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
    <section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter2-6" epub:type="chapter">
      <h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
      <p>
        Captain Forrester’s death, which occurred early in December, was
        “telegraphic news,” the only State news that the discouraged town of
        Sweet Water had furnished for a long while. Flowers and telegrams came
        from east and west, but it happened that none of the Captain’s closest
        friends could come to his funeral. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Dalzell was in
        California, the president of the Burlington railroad was travelling in
        Europe. The others were far away or in uncertain health. Doctor Dennison
        and Judge Pommeroy were the only two of his intimates among the
        pallbearers.
      </p>
      <p>
        On the morning of the funeral, when the Captain was already in his
        coffin, and the undertaker was in the parlour setting up chairs, Niel
        heard a knocking at the kitchen door. There he found Adolph Blum,
        carrying a large white box.
      </p>
      <p>
        “Niel,” he said, “will you please give these to
        <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester, and tell her they are from Rhein and me,
        for the Captain?”
      </p>
      <p>
        Adolph was in his old working clothes, the only clothes he had,
        probably, with a knitted comforter about his neck. Niel knew he wouldn’t
        come to the funeral, so he said:
      </p>
      <p>
        “Won’t you come in and see him, ’Dolph? He looks just like himself.”
      </p>
      <p>
        Adolph hesitated, but he caught sight of the undertaker’s man, through
        the parlour bay-window, and said, “No, thank you, Niel,” thrust his red
        hands into his jacket pockets, and walked away.
      </p>
      <p>
        Niel took the flowers out of the box, a great armful of yellow roses,
        which must have cost the price of many a dead rabbit. He carried them
        upstairs, where <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester was lying down.
      </p>
      <p>
        “These are from the Blum boys,” he said. “Adolph just brought them to
        the kitchen door.”
      </p>
      <p>
        <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester looked at them, then turned away her head on
        the pillow, her lips trembling. It was the only time that day he saw her
        pale composure break.
      </p>
      <p>
        The funeral was large. Old settlers and farmer folk came from all over
        the county to follow the pioneer’s body to the grave. As Niel and his
        uncle were driving back from the cemetery with
        <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester, she spoke for the first time since they had
        left the house. “Judge Pommeroy,” she said quietly, “I think I will have
        <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Forrester’s sundial taken over and put above his grave.
        I can have an inscription cut on the base. It seems more appropriate for
        him than any stone we could buy. And I will plant some of his own
        rosebushes beside it.”
      </p>
      <p>
        When they got back to the house it was four o’clock, and she insisted
        upon making tea for them. “I would like it myself, and it is better to
        be doing something. Wait for me in the parlour. And, Niel, move the
        things back as we always have them.”
      </p>
      <p>
        The grey day was darkening, and as the three sat having their tea in the
        bay-window, swift squalls of snow were falling over the wide meadows
        between the hill and the town, and the creaking of the big cottonwoods
        about the house seemed to say that winter had come.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
