<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0"
  xml:lang="en-US"
>
  <head>
    <title>XIII</title>
    <link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
    <link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
    <section id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
      <h4>IV</h4>
      <p>
        The weather was dry and intensely hot for several weeks, and then, at
        the end of July, thunder-storms and torrential rains broke upon the
        Sweet Water valley. The river burst out of its banks, all the creeks
        were up, and the stubble of Ivy Peters’ wheat fields lay under water. A
        wide lake and two rushing creeks now separated the Forresters from the
        town. Ben Keezer rode over to them every day to do the chores and to
        take them their mail. One evening Ben, with his slicker and leather
        mailbag, had just come out of the post-office and was preparing to mount
        his horse, when Niel Herbert stopped him to ask in a low voice whether
        he had got the Denver paper.
      </p>
      <p>
        “Oh, yes. I always wait for the papers. She likes to have them to read
        of an evening. Guess it’s pretty lonesome over there.” He swung into his
        saddle and splashed off. Niel walked slowly around to the hotel for
        dinner. He had found something very disconcerting in the Denver paper:
        Frank Ellinger’s picture on the society page, along with Constance
        Ogden’s. They had been married yesterday at Colorado Springs, and were
        stopping at the Antlers.
      </p>
      <p>
        After supper Niel put on his rubber coat and started for the
        Forresters’. When he reached the first creek, he found that the
        foot-bridge had been washed out from the far bank and lay obliquely in
        the stream, battered at by the yellow current which might at any moment
        carry it away. One could not cross the ford without a horse. He looked
        irresolutely across the submerged bottom lands. The house was dark, no
        lights in the parlour windows. The rain was beginning to fall again.
        Perhaps she had rather be alone tonight. He would go over tomorrow.
      </p>
      <p>
        He went back to the law office and tried to make himself comfortable,
        though the place was in distracting disorder. The continued rain had set
        one of the chimneys leaking, had brought down streams of soot and black
        water and flooded the stove and the Judge’s once handsome Brussels
        carpet. The tinner had been there all afternoon, trying to find what was
        the matter with the flue, cutting a new sheet-iron drawer to fit under
        the stove-pipe. But at six o’clock he had gone away, leaving tools and
        sheets of metal lying about. The rooms were damp and cold. Niel put on a
        heavy sweater, since he could not have a fire, lit the big coal-oil
        lamp, and sat down with a book. When at last he looked at his watch, it
        was nearly midnight, and he had been reading three hours. He would have
        another pipe, and go to bed. He had scarcely lit it, when he heard
        quick, hurrying footsteps in the echoing corridor outside. He got to the
        door in an instant, was there to open it before
        <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester had time to knock. He caught her by the arm
        and pulled her in.
      </p>
      <p>
        Everything but her wet, white face was hidden by a black rubber hat and
        a coat that was much too big for her. Streams of water trickled from the
        coat, and when she opened it he saw that she was drenched to the
        waist⁠—her black dress clung in a muddy pulp about her.
      </p>
      <p>
        “<abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester,” he cried, “you can’t have crossed the
        creek! It’s up to a horse’s belly in the ford.”
      </p>
      <p>
        “I came over the bridge, what’s left of it. It shook under me, but I’m
        not heavy.” She threw off her hat and wiped the water from her face with
        her hands.
      </p>
      <p>
        “Why didn’t you ask Ben to bring you over on his horse? Here, please
        swallow this.”
      </p>
      <p>
        She pushed his hand aside. “Wait. Afterwards. Ben? I didn’t think until
        after he was gone. It’s the telephone I want, long distance. Get me
        Colorado Springs, the Antlers, quick!”
      </p>
      <p>
        Then Niel noticed that she smelled strong of spirits; it steamed above
        the smell of rubber and creek mud and wet cloth. She snatched up the
        desk telephone, but he gently took it from her.
      </p>
      <p>
        “I’ll get them for you, but you’re in no condition to talk now; you’re
        out of breath. Do you really want to talk tonight? You know
        <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Beasley will hear every word you say.”
        <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Beasley was the Sweet Water central, and an
        indefatigable reporter of everything that went over the wires.
      </p>
      <p>
        <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester, sitting in his uncle’s desk chair, tapped
        the carpet with the toe of her rubber boot. “Do hurry, please,” she said
        in that polite, warning tone of which even Ivy Peters was afraid.
      </p>
      <p>
        Niel aroused the sleepy central and put in the call. “She asks whom you
        wish to speak to?”
      </p>
      <p>
        “Frank Ellinger. Say Judge Pommeroy’s office wishes to speak to him.”
      </p>
      <p>
        Niel began soothing <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Beasley at the other end. “No, not
        the management, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Beasley, one of the guests. Frank
        Ellinger,” he spelled the name. “Yes. Judge Pommeroy’s office wants to
        talk to him. I’ll be right here. As soon as you can, please.”
      </p>
      <p>
        He put down the instrument. “I’d rather, you know, publish anything in
        the town paper than telephone it through <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Beasley.”
        <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester paid no heed to him, did not look at him,
        sat staring at the wall. “I can’t see why you didn’t call me up and ask
        me to bring a horse over for you, if you felt you must get to a long
        distance telephone tonight.”
      </p>
      <p>
        “Yes; I didn’t think of it. I only knew I had to get over here, and I
        was afraid something might stop me.” She was watching the telephone as
        if it were alive. Her eyes were shrunk to hard points. Her brows, drawn
        together in an acute angle, kept twitching in the frown which held
        them⁠—the singular frown of one overcome by alcohol or fatigue, who is
        holding on to consciousness by the strength of a single purpose. Her
        blue lips, the black shadows under her eyes, made her look as if some
        poison were at work in her body.
      </p>
      <p>
        They waited and waited. Niel understood that she did not wish him to
        talk. Her mind was struggling with something, with every blink of her
        lashes she seemed to face it anew. Presently she rose as if she could
        bear the suspense no longer and went over to the window, leaned against
        it.
      </p>
      <p>“Did you leave Captain Forrester alone?” Niel asked suddenly.</p>
      <p>
        “Yes. Nothing will happen over there. Nothing ever
        <em>does</em> happen!” she answered wildly, wringing her hands.
      </p>
      <p>
        The telephone buzzed. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester darted toward the
        desk, but Niel lifted the instrument in his left hand and barred her way
        with his right. “Try to be calm, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester. When I get
        Ellinger I will let you talk to him⁠—and central will hear every word
        you say, remember.”
      </p>
      <p>
        After some exchanges with the Colorado office, he pointed her to the
        chair. “Sit down and I’ll give it to you. He is on the wire.”
      </p>
      <p>
        He did not dare to leave her alone, though it was awkward enough to be a
        listener. He walked to the window and stood with his back to the desk
        where she was sitting.
      </p>
      <p>
        “Is that you, Frank? This is Marian. I won’t keep you a moment. You were
        asleep? So early? That’s not like you. You’ve reformed already, haven’t
        you? That’s what marriage does, they say. No, I wasn’t altogether
        surprised. You might have taken me into your confidence, though. Haven’t
        I deserved it?”
      </p>
      <p>
        A long, listening pause. Niel stared stupidly at the dark window. He had
        steeled his nerves for wild reproaches. The voice he heard behind him
        was her most charming; playful, affectionate, intimate, with a thrill of
        pleasant excitement that warmed its slight formality and burned through
        the common-place words like the colour in an opal. He simply held his
        breath while she fluttered on:
      </p>
      <p>
        “Where shall you go for your honeymoon? Oh, I’m very sorry! So soon⁠ ⁠…
        You must take good care of her. Give her my love.⁠ ⁠… I should think
        California, at this time of the year, might be right⁠ ⁠…”
      </p>
      <p>
        It went on like this for some minutes. The voice, it seemed to Niel, was
        that of a woman, young, beautiful, happy⁠—warm and at her ease, sitting
        in her own drawing-room and talking on a stormy night to a dear friend
        far away.
      </p>
      <p>
        “Oh, unusually well, for me. Stop and see for yourself. You will be
        going to Omaha on business next week, before California. Oh, yes, you
        will! Stop off between trains. You know how welcome you are, always.”
      </p>
      <p>
        A long pause. An exclamation from <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester made Niel
        turn sharply round. Now it was coming! Her voice was darkening with
        every word. “I think I understand you. You are not speaking from your
        own room? What, from the office booth? Oh, then I understand you very
        well indeed!” Niel looked about in alarm. It was time to stop her, but
        how? The voice went on.
      </p>
      <p>
        “Play safe! When have you ever played anything else? You know, Frank,
        the truth is that you’re a coward; a great, hulking coward. Do you hear
        me? I want you to hear!⁠ ⁠… You’ve got a safe thing at last, I should
        think; safe and pasty! How much stock did you get with it? A big block,
        I hope! Now let me tell you the truth: I don’t want you to come here! I
        never want to see you again while I live, and I forbid you to come and
        look at me when I’m dead. I don’t want your hateful eyes to look at my
        dead face. Do you hear me? Why don’t you answer me? Don’t dare to hang
        up the receiver, you coward! Oh, you big⁠ ⁠… Frank, Frank, say
        something! Oh, he’s shut me off, I can’t hear him!”
      </p>
      <p>
        She flung the receiver down, dropped her head on the desk, and broke
        into heavy, groaning sobs. Niel stood over her and waited with
        composure. For once he had been quick enough; he had saved her. The
        moment that quivering passion of hatred and wrong leaped into her voice,
        he had taken the big shears left by the tinner and cut the insulated
        wire behind the desk. Her reproaches had got no farther than this room.
      </p>
      <p>
        When the sobs ceased he touched her shoulder. He shook her, but there
        was no response. She was asleep, sunk in a heavy stupor. Her hands and
        face were so cold that he thought there could not be a drop of warm
        blood left in her body. He carried her into his room, cut off her
        drenched clothing, wrapped her in his bathrobe and put her into his own
        bed. She was absolutely unconscious. He blew out the light, locked her
        in, and left the building, going as fast as he could to Judge Pommeroy’s
        cottage. He roused his uncle and briefly explained the situation.
      </p>
      <p>
        “Can you dress and go down to the office for the rest of the night,
        Uncle Judge? Some one must be with her. And I’ll get over to the Captain
        at once; he certainly oughtn’t to be left alone. If she could get across
        the bridge, I guess I can. By the way, she began talking wild, and I cut
        the telephone wire behind your desk. So keep an eye on it. It might make
        trouble on a stormy night like this. I’ll get a livery hack and take
        <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester home in the morning, before the town is
        awake.”
      </p>
      <p>
        When daylight began to break Niel went into Captain Forrester’s room and
        told him that his wife had been sent for in the night to answer a long
        distance telephone call, and that now he was going to bring her home.
      </p>
      <p>
        The Captain lay propped up on three big pillows. Since his face had
        grown fat and relaxed, its ruggedness had changed to an almost Asiatic
        smoothness. He looked like a wise old Chinese mandarin as he lay
        listening to the young man’s fantastic story with perfect composure,
        merely blinking and saying, “Thank you, Niel, thank you.”
      </p>
      <p>
        As Niel went through the sleeping town on his way to the livery barn, he
        saw the short, plump figure of <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Beasley, like a boiled
        pudding sewed up in a blue kimono, waddling through the feathery
        asparagus bed behind the telephone office. She had already been next
        door to tell her neighbour Molly Tucker, the seamstress, the story of
        her exciting night.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
