<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title epub:type="z3998:roman">VIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter-2-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h3>
			<p>One morning when a warm May wind was whirling the dust up the street, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester came smiling into Judge Pommeroy’s office, wearing a new spring bonnet, and a short black velvet cape, fastened at the neck with a bunch of violets. “Please be nice enough to notice my new clothes, Niel,” she said coaxingly. “They are the first I’ve had in years and years.”</p>
			<p>He told her they were very pretty.</p>
			<p>“And aren’t you glad I have some at last?” she smiled enquiringly through her veil. “I feel as if you weren’t going to be cross with me today, and would do what I ask you. It’s nothing very troublesome. I want you to come to dinner Friday night. If you come, there will be eight of us, counting Annie Peters. They are all boys you know, and if you don’t like them, you ought to! Yes, you ought to!” she nodded at him severely. “Since you mind what people say, Niel, aren’t you afraid they’ll be saying you’re a snob, just because you’ve been to Boston and seen a little of the world? You mustn’t be so stiff, so⁠—so superior! It isn’t becoming, at your age.” She drew her brows down into a level frown so like his own that he laughed. He had almost forgotten her old talent for mimicry.</p>
			<p>“What do you want me for? You used always to say it was no good asking people who didn’t mix.”</p>
			<p>“You can mix well enough, if you take the trouble. And this time you will, for me. Won’t you?”</p>
			<p>When she was gone, Niel was angry with himself for having been persuaded.</p>
			<p>On Friday evening he was the last guest to arrive. It was a warm night, after a hot day. The windows were open, and the perfume of the lilacs came into the dusky parlour where the boys were sitting about in chairs that seemed too big for them. A lamp was burning in the dining-room, and there Ivy Peters stood at the sideboard, mixing cocktails. His sister Annie was in the kitchen, helping the hostess. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester came in for a moment to greet Niel, then excused herself and hurried back to Annie Peters. Through the open door he saw that the silver dishes had reappeared on the dinner table, and the candlesticks and flowers. The young men who sat about in the twilight would not know the difference, he thought, if she had furnished her table that morning, from the stock in Wernz’s queensware store. Their conception of a really fine dinner service was one “hand painted” by a sister or sweetheart. Each boy sat with his legs crossed, one tan shoe swinging in the air and displaying a tan silk sock. They were talking about clothes; Joe Simpson, who had just inherited his father’s clothing business, was eager to tell them what the summer styles would be.</p>
			<p>Ivy Peters came in, shaking his drinks. “You fellows are like a bunch of girls⁠—always talking about what you are going to wear and how you can spend your money. Simpson wouldn’t get rich very fast if you all wore your clothes as long as I do. When did I get this suit, Joe?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, about the year I graduated from High School, I guess!”</p>
			<p>They all laughed at Ivy. No matter what he did or said, they laughed⁠—in recognition of his general success.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester came back, fanning herself with a little sandalwood fan, and when she appeared the boys rose⁠—in alarm, one might have thought, from the suddenness of it. That much, at any rate, she had succeeded in teaching them.</p>
			<p>“Are your cocktails ready, Ivy? You will have to wait for me a moment, while I put some powder on my nose. If I’d known how hot it would be tonight, I’m afraid I wouldn’t have had a roast for you. I’m browner than the ducks. You can pour them though. I won’t be long.”</p>
			<p>She disappeared into her own room, and the boys sat down with the same surprising promptness. Ivy Peters carried the tray about, and they held their glasses before them, waiting for <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester. When she came, she took Niel’s arm and led him into the dining-room. “Did you notice,” she whispered to him, “how they hold their glasses? What is it they do to a little glass to make it look so vulgar? Nobody could ever teach them to pick one up and drink out of it, not if there were tea in it!”</p>
			<p>Aloud she said, “Niel, will you light the candles for me? And then take the head of the table, please. You can carve ducks?”</p>
			<p>“Not so well as⁠—as my uncle does,” he murmured, carefully putting back a candle-shade.</p>
			<p>“Nor as <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Forrester did? I don’t ask that. Nobody can carve now as men used to. But you can get them apart, I suppose? The place at your right is for Annie Peters. She is bringing in the dinner for me. Be seated, gentlemen!” with a little mocking bow and a swinging of earrings.</p>
			<p>While Niel was carving the ducks, Annie slipped into the chair beside him, her naturally red face glowing from the heat of the stove. She was several years younger than her brother, whom she obeyed unquestioningly in everything. She had an extremely bad complexion and pale yellow hair with white lights in it, exactly the colour of molasses taffy that has been pulled until it glistens. During the dinner she did not once speak, except to say, “Thank you,” or “No, thank you.” Nobody but <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester talked much until the first helping of duck was consumed. The boys had not yet learned to do two things at once. They paused only to ask their hostess if she “would care for the jelly,” or to answer her questions.</p>
			<p>Niel studied <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester between the candles, as she nodded encouragingly to one and another, trying to “draw them out,” laughing at Roy Jones’ heavy jokes, or congratulating Joe Simpson upon his new dignity as a business man with a business of his own. The long earrings swung beside the thin cheeks that were none the better, he thought, for the rouge she had put on them when she went to her room just before dinner. It improved some women, but not her⁠—at least, not tonight, when her eyes were hollow with fatigue, and she looked pinched and worn as he had never seen her. He sighed as he thought how much work it meant to cook a dinner like this for eight people⁠—and a beefsteak with potatoes would have pleased them better! They didn’t really like this kind of food at all. Why did she do it? How would she feel about it tonight, when she sank dead weary into bed, after these stupid boys had said good night, and their yellow shoes had carried them down the hill?</p>
			<p>She was not eating anything, she was using up all her vitality to electrify these heavy lads into speech. Niel felt that he must help her, or at least try to. He addressed them one after another with energy and determination; he tried baseball, politics, scandal, the corn crop. They answered him with monosyllables or exclamations. He soon realized that they didn’t want his polite remarks; they wanted more duck, and to be let alone with it.</p>
			<p>Dinner was soon over, at any rate. The hostess’ attempts to prolong it were unavailing. The salad and frozen pudding were dispatched as promptly as the roast had been. The guests went into the parlour and lit cigars.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester had the old-fashioned notion that men should be alone after dinner. She did not join them for half an hour. Perhaps she had lain down upstairs, for she looked a little rested. The boys were talking now, discussing a camping trip Ed Elliot was going to take in the mountains. They were giving him advice about camp outfits, trout flies, mixtures to keep off mosquitoes.</p>
			<p>“I’ll tell you, boys,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester, when she had listened to them for a moment, “when I go back to California, I intend to have a summer cabin up in the Sierras, and I invite you, one and all, to visit me. You’ll have to work for your keep, you understand; cut the firewood and bring the water and wash the pots and pans, and go out and catch fish for breakfast. Ivy can bring his gun and shoot game for us, and I’ll bake bread in an iron pot, the old trappers’ way, if I haven’t forgotten how. Will you come?”</p>
			<p>“You bet we will! You know those mountains by heart, I expect?” said Ed Elliot.</p>
			<p>She smiled and shook her head. “It would take a lifetime to do that, Ed, more than a lifetime. The Sierras⁠—there’s no end to them, and they’re magnificent.”</p>
			<p>Niel turned to her. “Have you ever told the boys how it was you first met Captain Forrester in the mountains out there? If they haven’t heard the story, I think they would like it.”</p>
			<p>“Really, would you? Well, once upon a time, when I was a very young girl, I was spending the summer at a camp in the mountains, with friends of my father’s.”</p>
			<p>She began there, but that was not the beginning of the story; long ago Niel had heard from his uncle that the beginning was a scandal and a murder. When Marian Ormsby was nineteen, she was engaged to Ned Montgomery, a gaudy young millionaire of the Gold Coast. A few weeks before the date set for their marriage, Montgomery was shot and killed in the lobby of a San Francisco hotel by the husband of another woman. The subsequent trial involved a great deal of publicity, and Marian was hurried away from curious eyes and sent up into the mountains until the affair should blow over.</p>
			<p>Tonight <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester began with “Once upon a time.” Sitting at one end of the big sofa, her slippers on a footstool and her head in shadow, she stirred the air before her face with the sandalwood fan as she talked, the rings glittering on her white fingers. She told them how Captain Forrester, then a widower, had come up to the camp to visit her father’s partner. She had noticed him very little⁠—she was off every day with the young men. One afternoon she had persuaded young Fred Harney, an intrepid mountain climber, to take her down the face of Eagle Cliff. They were almost down, and were creeping over a projecting ledge, when the rope broke, and they dropped to the bottom. Harney fell on the rocks and was killed instantly. The girl was caught in a pine tree, which arrested her fall. Both her legs were broken, and she lay in the canyon all night in the bitter cold, swept by the icy canyon draught. Nobody at the camp knew where to look for the two missing members of the party⁠—they had stolen off alone for their foolhardy adventure. Nobody worried, because Harney knew all the trails and could not get lost. In the morning, however, when they were still missing, search parties went out. It was Captain Forrester’s party that found Marian, and got her out by the lower trail. The trail was so steep and narrow, the turns round the jutting ledges so sharp, that it was impossible to take her out on a litter. The men took turns carrying her, hugging the canyon walls with their shoulders as they crept along. With her broken legs hanging, she suffered terribly⁠—fainted again and again. But she noticed that she suffered less when Captain Forrester carried her, and that he took all the most dangerous places on the trail himself. “I could feel his heart pump and his muscles strain,” she said, “when he balanced himself and me on the rocks. I knew that if we fell, we’d go together; he would never drop me.”</p>
			<p>They got back to camp, and everything possible was done for her, but by the time a surgeon could be got up from San Francisco, her fractures had begun to knit and had to be broken over again.</p>
			<p>“It was Captain Forrester I wanted to hold my hand when the surgeon had to do things to me. You remember, Niel, he always boasted that I never screamed when they were carrying me up the trail. He stayed at the camp until I could begin to walk, holding to his arm. When he asked me to marry him, he didn’t have to ask twice. Do you wonder?” She looked with a smile about the circle, and drew her fingertips absently across her forehead as if to brush away something⁠—the past, or the present, who could tell?</p>
			<p>The boys were genuinely moved. While she was answering their questions, Niel thought about the first time he ever heard her tell that story: <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Dalzell had stopped off with a party of friends from Chicago; Marshall Field and the president of the Union Pacific were among them, he remembered, and they were going through in <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Dalzell’s private car to hunt in the Black Hills. She had, after all, not changed so much since then. Niel felt tonight that the right man could save her, even now. She was still her indomitable self, going through her old part⁠—but only the stagehands were left to listen to her. All those who had shared in fine undertakings and bright occasions were gone.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
