<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html
 xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
 xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
 epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0"
 xml:lang="en-US"
>
 <head>
 <title>XVIII</title>
 <link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
 <link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
 </head>
 <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
 <section id="chapter-18" epub:type="chapter">
 <h4>IX</h4>
 <p>
 With the summer months Judge Pommeroy’s health improved, and as soon as
 he was able to be back in his office, Niel began to plan to return to
 Boston. He would get there the first of August and would go to work with
 a tutor to make up for the months he had lost. It was a melancholy time
 for him. He was in a fever of impatience to be gone, and yet he felt
 that he was going away forever, and was making the final break with
 everything that had been dear to him in his boyhood. The people, the
 very country itself, were changing so fast that there would be nothing
 to come back to.
 </p>
 <p>
 He had seen the end of an era, the sunset of the pioneer. He had come
 upon it when already its glory was nearly spent. So in the buffalo times
 a traveller used to come upon the embers of a hunter’s fire on the
 prairie, after the hunter was up and gone; the coals would be trampled
 out, but the ground was warm, and the flattened grass where he had slept
 and where his pony had grazed, told the story.
 </p>
 <p>
 This was the very end of the road-making West; the men who had put
 plains and mountains under the iron harness were old; some were poor,
 and even the successful ones were hunting for rest and a brief reprieve
 from death. It was already gone, that age; nothing could ever bring it
 back. The taste and smell and song of it, the visions those men had seen
 in the air and followed⁠—these he had caught in a kind of afterglow in
 their own faces⁠—and this would always be his.
 </p>
 <p>
 It was what he most held against <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester; that she was not
 willing to immolate herself, like the widow of all these great men, and
 die with the pioneer period to which she belonged; that she preferred
 life on any terms. In the end, Niel went away without bidding her
 good-bye. He went away with weary contempt for her in his heart.
 </p>
 <p>
 It happened like this⁠—had scarcely the dignity of an episode. It was
 nothing, and yet it was everything. Going over to see her one summer
 evening, he stopped a moment by the dining-room window to look at the
 honeysuckle. The dining-room door was open into the kitchen, and there
 <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester stood at a table, making pastry. Ivy Peters came in at
 the kitchen door, walked up behind her, and unconcernedly put both arms
 around her, his hands meeting over her breast. She did not move, did not
 look up, but went on rolling out pastry.
 </p>
 <p>
 Niel went down the hill. “For the last time,” he said, as he crossed the
 bridge in the evening light, “for the last time.” And it was even so; he
 never went up the poplar-bordered road again. He had given her a year of
 his life, and she had thrown it away. He had helped the Captain to die
 peacefully, he believed; and now it was the Captain who seemed the
 reality. All those years he had thought it was <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester who made
 that house so different from any other. But ever since the Captain’s
 death it was a house where old friends, like his uncle, were betrayed
 and cast off, where common fellows behaved after their kind and knew a
 common woman when they saw her.
 </p>
 <p>
 If he had not had the nature of a spaniel, he told himself, he would
 never have gone back after the first time. It took two doses to cure
 him. Well, he had had them! Nothing she could ever do would in the least
 matter to him again.
 </p>
 <p>
 He had news of her now and then, as long as his uncle lived. “<i
 ><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester’s name is everywhere coupled with Ivy Peters’</i
 >,” the Judge wrote. “<i
 >She does not look happy, and I fear her health is failing, but she
 has put herself in such a position that her husband’s friends cannot
 help her.</i
 >”
 </p>
 <p>
 And again: “<i
 >Of <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester, no news is good news. She is sadly broken.</i
 >”
 </p>
 <p>
 After his uncle’s death, Niel heard that Ivy Peters had at last bought
 the Forrester place, and had brought a wife from Wyoming to live there.
 <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester had gone West⁠—people supposed to California.
 </p>
 <p>
 It was years before Niel could think of her without chagrin. But
 eventually, after she had drifted out of his ken, when he did not know
 if Daniel Forrester’s widow were living or dead, Daniel Forrester’s wife
 returned to him, a bright, impersonal memory.
 </p>
 <p>
 He came to be very glad that he had known her, and that she had had a
 hand in breaking him in to life. He has known pretty women and clever
 ones since then⁠—but never one like her, as she was in her best days.
 Her eyes, when they laughed for a moment into one’s own, seemed to
 promise a wild delight that he has not found in life. “I know where it
 is,” they seemed to say, “I could show you!” He would like to call up
 the shade of the young <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester, as the witch of Endor called up
 Samuel’s, and challenge it, demand the secret of that ardour; ask her
 whether she had really found some ever-blooming, ever-burning,
 every-piercing joy, or whether it was all fine play-acting. Probably she
 had found no more than another; but she had always the power of
 suggesting things much lovelier than herself, as the perfume of a single
 flower may call up the whole sweetness of spring.
 </p>
 <p>
 <br />
 </p>
 <p>
 Niel was destined to hear once again of his long-lost lady. One evening
 as he was going into the dining-room of a Chicago hotel, a
 broad-shouldered man with an open, sunbrowned face, approached him and
 introduced himself as one of the boys who had grown up in Sweet Water.
 </p>
 <p>
 “I’m Ed Elliott, and I thought it must be you. Could we take a table
 together? I promised an old friend of yours to give you a message, if I
 ever ran across you. You remember <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester? Well, I saw her again,
 twelve years after she left Sweet Water⁠—down in Buenos Ayres.” They sat
 down and ordered dinner.
 </p>
 <p>
 “Yes, I was in South America on business. I’m a mining engineer, I spent
 some time in Buenos Ayres. One evening there was a banquet of some sort
 at one of the big hotels, and I happened to step out of the bar, just as
 a car drove up to the entrance where the guests were going in. I paid no
 attention until one of the ladies laughed. I recognized her by her
 laugh⁠—that hadn’t changed a particle. She was all done up in furs, with
 a scarf over her head, but I saw her eyes, and then I was sure. I
 stepped up and spoke to her. She seemed glad to see me, made me go into
 the hotel, and talked to me until her husband came to drag her away to
 the dinner. Oh, yes, she was married again⁠—to a rich, cranky old
 Englishman; Henry Collins was his name. He was born down there, she told
 me, but she met him in California. She told me they lived on a big stock
 ranch and had come down in their car for this banquet. I made inquiries
 afterward and found the old fellow was quite a character; had been
 married twice before, once to a Brazilian woman. People said he was
 rich, but quarrelsome and rather stingy. She seemed to have everything,
 though. They travelled in a fine French car, and she had brought her
 maid along, and he had his valet. No, she hadn’t changed as much as
 you’d think. She was a good deal made up, of course, like most of the
 women down there; plenty of powder, and a little red, too, I guess. Her
 hair was black, blacker than I remembered it; looked as if she dyed it.
 She invited me to visit them on their estate, and so did the old man,
 when he came to get her. She asked about everybody, and said, ‘If you
 ever meet Niel Herbert, give him my love, and tell him I often think of
 him.’ She said again, ‘Tell him things have turned out well for me. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Collins is the kindest of husbands.’ I called at your office in New York
 on my way back from South America, but you were somewhere in Europe. It
 was remarkable, how she’d come up again. She seemed pretty well gone to
 pieces before she left Sweet Water.”
 </p>
 <p>
 “Do you suppose,” said Niel, “that she could be living still? I’d almost
 make the trip to see her.”
 </p>
 <p>
 “No, she died about three years ago. I know that for certain. After she
 left Sweet Water, wherever she was, she always sent a cheque to the
 Grand Army Post every year to have flowers put on Captain Forrester’s
 grave for Decoration Day. Three years ago the Post got a letter from the
 old Englishman, with a draft for the future care of Captain Forrester’s
 grave, ‘<i>in memory of my late wife, Marian Forrester Collins.</i>‘”
 </p>
 <p>
 “So we may feel sure that she was well cared for, to the very end,” said
 Niel. “Thank God for that!”
 </p>
 <p>
 “I knew you’d feel that way,” said Ed Elliot, as a warm wave of feeling
 passed over his face. “I did!”
 </p>
 </section>
 </body>
</html>
