<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
  <head>
    <title epub:type="z3998:roman">VII</title>
    <link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
    <link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
    <section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter1-7" epub:type="chapter">
      <h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
      <p>
        On the evenings when there was no whist at the Forresters’, Niel usually
        sat in his room and read⁠—but not law, as he was supposed to do. The
        winter before, when the Forresters were away, and one dull day dragged
        after another, he had come upon a copious diversion, an almost
        inexhaustible resource. The high, narrow bookcase in the back office,
        between the double doors and the wall, was filled from top to bottom
        with rows of solemn looking volumes bound in dark cloth, which were kept
        apart from the law library; an almost complete set of the Bohn classics,
        which Judge Pommeroy had bought long ago when he was a student at the
        University of Virginia. He had brought them West with him, not because
        he read them a great deal, but because, in his day, a gentleman had such
        books in his library, just as he had claret in his cellar. Among them
        was a set of Byron in three volumes, and last winter, apropos of a
        quotation which Niel didn’t recognize, his uncle advised him to read
        Byron⁠—all except “Don Juan.” That, the Judge remarked, with a deep
        smile, he “could save until later.” Niel, of course, began with “Don
        Juan.” Then he read “Tom Jones” and “Wilhelm Meister” and raced on until
        he came to Montaigne and a complete translation of Ovid. He hadn’t
        finished yet with these last⁠—always went back to them after other
        experiments. These authors seemed to him to know their business. Even in
        “Don Juan” there was a little “fooling,” but with these gentlemen none.
      </p>
      <p>
        There were philosophical works in the collection, but he did no more
        than open and glance at them. He had no curiosity about what men had
        thought; but about what they had felt and lived, he had a great deal. If
        anyone had told him that these were classics and represented the wisdom
        of the ages, he would doubtless have let them alone. But ever since he
        had first found them for himself, he had been living a double life, with
        all its guilty enjoyments He read the
        <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Heroides</i> over and over, and
        felt that they were the most glowing love stories ever told. He did not
        think of these books as something invented to beguile the idle hour, but
        as living creatures, caught in the very behaviour of living⁠—surprised
        behind their misleading severity of form and phrase. He was
        eavesdropping upon the past, being let into the great world that had
        plunged and glittered and sumptuously sinned long before little Western
        towns were dreamed of. Those rapt evenings beside the lamp gave him a
        long perspective, influenced his conception of the people about him,
        made him know just what he wished his own relations with these people to
        be. For some reason, his reading made him wish to become an architect.
        If the Judge had left his Bohn library behind him in Kentucky, his
        nephew’s life might have turned out differently.
      </p>
      <p>
        <br/>
      </p>
      <p>
        Spring came at last, and the Forrester place had never been so lovely.
        The Captain spent long, happy days among his flowering shrubs, and his
        wife used to say to visitors, “Yes, you can see
        <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Forrester in a moment; I will send the English gardener
        to call him.”
      </p>
      <p>
        Early in June, when the Captain’s roses were just coming on, his
        pleasant labors were interrupted. One morning an alarming telegram
        reached him. He cut it open with his garden shears, came into the house,
        and asked his wife to telephone for Judge Pommeroy. A savings bank, one
        in which he was largely interested, had failed in Denver. That evening
        the Captain and his lawyer went west on the express. The Judge, when he
        was giving Niel final instructions about the office business, told him
        he was afraid the Captain was bound to lose a good deal of money.
      </p>
      <p>
        <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester seemed unaware of any danger; she went to
        the station to see her husband off, spoke of his errand merely as a
        “business trip.” Niel, however, felt a foreboding gloom. He dreaded
        poverty for her. She was one of the people who ought always to have
        money; any retrenchment of their generous way of living would be a
        hardship for her⁠—would be unfitting. She would not be herself in
        straitened circumstances.
      </p>
      <p>
        Niel took his meals at the town hotel; on the third day after Captain
        Forrester’s departure, he was annoyed to find Frank Ellinger’s name on
        the hotel register. Ellinger did not appear at supper, which meant, of
        course, that he was dining with <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester, and that
        the lady herself would get his dinner. She had taken the occasion of the
        Captain’s absence to let Bohemian Mary go to visit her mother on the
        farm for a week. Niel thought it very bad taste in Ellinger to come to
        Sweet Water when Captain Forrester was away. He must know that it would
        stir up the gossips.
      </p>
      <p>
        Niel had meant to call on <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester that evening, but
        now he went back to the office instead. He read late, and after he went
        to bed, he slept lightly. He was awakened before dawn by the puffing of
        the switch engine down at the round house. He tried to muffle his ears
        in the sheet and go to sleep again, but the sound of escaping steam for
        some reason excited him. He could not shut out the feeling that it was
        summer, and that the dawn would soon be flaming gloriously over the
        Forresters’ marsh. He had awakened with that intense, blissful
        realization of summer which sometimes comes to children in their beds.
        He rose and dressed quickly. He would get over to the hill before Frank
        Ellinger could intrude his unwelcome presence, while he was still asleep
        in the best bedroom of the Wimbleton hotel.
      </p>
      <p>
        An impulse of affection and guardianship drew Niel up the
        poplar-bordered road in the early light⁠—though he did not go near the
        house itself, but at the second bridge cut round through the meadow and
        on to the marsh. The sky was burning with the soft pink and silver of a
        cloudless summer dawn. The heavy, bowed grasses splashed him to the
        knees. All over the marsh, snow-on-the-mountain, globed with dew, made
        cool sheets of silver, and the swamp milkweed spread its flat,
        raspberry-coloured clusters. There was an almost religious purity about
        the fresh morning air, the tender sky, the grass and flowers with the
        sheen of early dew upon them. There was in all living things something
        limpid and joyous⁠—like the wet, morning call of the birds, flying up
        through the unstained atmosphere. Out of the saffron east a thin,
        yellow, wine-like sunshine began to gild the fragrant meadows and the
        glistening tops of the grove. Niel wondered why he did not often come
        over like this, to see the day before men and their activities had
        spoiled it, while the morning was still unsullied, like a gift handed
        down from the heroic ages.
      </p>
      <p>
        Under the bluffs that overhung the marsh he came upon thickets of wild
        roses, with flaming buds, just beginning to open. Where they had opened,
        their petals were stained with that burning rose-colour which is always
        gone by noon⁠—a dye made of sunlight and morning and moisture, so
        intense that it cannot possibly last⁠ ⁠… must fade, like ecstasy. Niel
        took out his knife and began to cut the stiff stems, crowded with red
        thorns.
      </p>
      <p>
        He would make a bouquet for a lovely lady; a bouquet gathered off the
        cheeks of morning⁠ ⁠… these roses, only half awake, in the
        defencelessness of utter beauty. He would leave them just outside one of
        the French windows of her bedroom. When she opened her shutters to let
        in the light, she would find them⁠—and they would perhaps give her a
        sudden distaste for coarse worldlings like Frank Ellinger.
      </p>
      <p>
        After tying his flowers with a twist of meadow grass, he went up the
        hill through the grove and softly round the still house to the north
        side of <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester’s own room, where the door-like
        green shutters were closed. As he bent to place the flowers on the sill,
        he heard from within a woman’s soft laughter; impatient, indulgent,
        teasing, eager. Then another laugh, very different, a man’s. And it was
        fat and lazy⁠—ended in something like a yawn.
      </p>
      <p>
        Niel found himself at the foot of the hill on the wooden bridge, his
        face hot, his temples beating, his eyes blind with anger. In his hand he
        still carried the prickly bunch of wild roses. He threw them over the
        wire fence into a mudhole the cattle had trampled under the bank of the
        creek. He did not know whether he had left the house by the driveway or
        had come down through the shrubbery. In that instant between stooping to
        the windowsill and rising, he had lost one of the most beautiful things
        in his life. Before the dew dried, the morning had been wrecked for him;
        and all subsequent mornings, he told himself bitterly. This day saw the
        end of that admiration and loyalty that had been like a bloom on his
        existence. He could never recapture it. It was gone, like the morning
        freshness of the flowers.
      </p>
      <p>
        “Lilies that fester,” he muttered, “<em>lilies that fester smell far worse than weeds.</em>”
      </p>
      <p>
        Grace, variety, the lovely voice, the sparkle of fun and fancy in those
        dark eyes; all this was nothing. It was not a moral scruple she had
        outraged, but an aesthetic ideal. Beautiful women, whose beauty meant
        more than it said⁠ ⁠… was their brilliancy always fed by something
        coarse and concealed? Was that their secret?
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
