<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
  <head>
    <title epub:type="z3998:roman">VII</title>
    <link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
    <link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
  </head>
  <body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
    <section data-parent="part-2" id="chapter2-7" epub:type="chapter">
      <h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
      <p>
        One morning in April Niel was alone in the law office. His uncle had
        been ill with rheumatic fever for a long while, and he had been
        attending to the routine of business.
      </p>
      <p>
        The door opened, and a figure stood there, strange and yet familiar⁠—he
        had to think a moment before he realized that it was Orville Ogden, who
        used to come to Sweet Water so often, but who had not been seen there
        now for several years. He didn’t look a day older; one eye was still
        direct and clear, the other clouded and oblique. He still wore a stiff
        imperial and twisted moustache, the grey colour of old beeswax, and his
        thin hair was brushed heroically up over the bald spot.
      </p>
      <p>
        “This is Judge Pommeroy’s nephew, isn’t it? I can’t think of your name,
        my boy, but I remember you. Is the Judge out?”
      </p>
      <p>
        “Please be seated, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Ogden. My uncle is ill. He hasn’t
        been at the office for several months. He’s had really a very bad time
        of it. Is there anything I can do for you?”
      </p>
      <p>
        “Oh, I’m sorry to hear that! I’m sorry.” He spoke as if he were. “I
        guess all we fellows are getting older, whether we like it or not. It
        made a great difference when Daniel Forrester went.”
        <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Ogden took off his overcoat, put his hat and gloves
        neatly on the desk, and then seemed somewhat at a loss. “What is your
        uncle’s trouble?” he asked suddenly.
      </p>
      <p>
        Niel told him. “I was to have gone back to school this winter, but uncle
        begged me to stay and look after things for him. There was no one here
        he wanted to entrust his business to.”
      </p>
      <p>
        “I see, I see,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Ogden thoughtfully. “Then you do
        attend to his business for the present?” He paused and reflected. “Yes,
        there was something that I wanted to take up with him. I am stopping off
        for a few hours only, between trains. I might speak to you about it, and
        you could consult your uncle and write me in Chicago. It’s a
        confidential matter, and concerns another person.”
      </p>
      <p>
        Niel assured him of his discretion, but <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Ogden seemed to
        find the subject difficult to approach. He looked very grave and slowly
        lit a cigar.
      </p>
      <p>
        “It is simply,” he said at last, “a rather delicate suggestion I wish to
        make to your uncle about one of his clients. I have several friends in
        the Government at Washington just at present, friends who would go out
        of their way to serve me. I have been thinking that we might manage it
        to get a special increase of pension for <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester. I
        am due in Chicago this week, and after my business there is finished, I
        would be quite willing to go on to Washington to see what can be done;
        provided, of course, that no one, least of all your uncle’s client,
        knows of my activity in the matter.”
      </p>
      <p>
        Niel flushed. “I’m sorry, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Ogden,” he brought out, “but
        <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester is no longer a client of my uncle’s. After
        the Captain’s death, she saw fit to take her business away from him.”
      </p>
      <p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Ogden’s normal eye became as blank as the other.</p>
      <p>“What’s that? He isn’t her lawyer? Why, for twenty years⁠—”</p>
      <p>
        “I know that, sir. She didn’t treat him with much consideration. She
        transferred her business very abruptly.”
      </p>
      <p>“To whom, may I ask?”</p>
      <p>“To a lawyer here in town; Ivy Peters.”</p>
      <p>“Peters? I never heard of him.”</p>
      <p>
        “No, you wouldn’t have. He wasn’t one of the people who went to the
        Forrester house in the old days. He’s one of the younger generation, a
        few years older than I. He rented part of the Forresters’ land for
        several years before the Captain’s death⁠—was their tenant. That was how
        <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester came to know him. She thinks him a good
        business man.”
      </p>
      <p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Ogden frowned. “And is he?”</p>
      <p>“Some people think so.”</p>
      <p>“Is he trustworthy?”</p>
      <p>
        “Far from it. He takes the cases nobody else will take. He may treat
        <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester honestly. But if he does, it will not be
        from principle.”
      </p>
      <p>
        “This is very distressing news. Go on with your work, my boy. I must
        think this over.” <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Ogden rose and walked about the room,
        his hands behind him. Niel turned to an unfinished letter on his desk,
        in order to leave his visitor the more free.
      </p>
      <p>
        <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Ogden’s position, he understood, was a difficult one.
        He had been devoted to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester, and before Constance
        had made up her mind to marry Frank Ellinger, before the mother and
        daughter began to angle for him, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Ogden had come to the
        Forresters’ more frequently than any of their Denver friends. He hadn’t
        been back, Niel believed, since that Christmas party when he and his
        family were there with Ellinger. Very soon afterward he must have seen
        what his women-folk were up to; and whether he approved or disapproved,
        he must have decided that there was nothing for him to do but to keep
        out. It hadn’t been the Forresters’ reversal of fortune that had kept
        him away. One could see that he was deeply troubled, that he had her
        heavily on his mind.
      </p>
      <p>
        Niel had finished his letter and was beginning another, when
        <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Ogden stopped beside his desk, where he stood twisting
        his imperial tighter and tighter. “You say this young lawyer is
        unprincipled? Sometimes rascals have a soft spot, a sentiment, where
        women are concerned.”
      </p>
      <p>Niel stared. He immediately thought of Ivy’s dimples.</p>
      <p>
        “A soft spot? A sentiment? <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Ogden, why not go to his
        office? A glance would convince you.”
      </p>
      <p>
        “Oh, that’s not necessary! I understand.” He looked out of the window,
        from which he could just see the treetops of the Forrester grove, and
        murmured, “Poor lady! So misguided. She ought to have advice from some
        of Daniel’s friends.” He took out his watch and consulted it, turning
        something over in his mind. His train was due in an hour, he said.
        Nothing could be done at present. In a few moments he left the office.
      </p>
      <p>
        Afterward, Niel felt sure that when <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Ogden stood there
        uncertainly, watch in hand, he was considering an interview with
        <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester. He had wanted to go to her, and had given
        it up. Was he afraid of his women-folk? Or was it another kind of
        cowardice, the fear of losing a pleasant memory, of finding her changed
        and marred, a dread of something that would throw a disenchanting light
        upon the past? Niel had heard his uncle say that <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Ogden
        admired pretty women, though he had married a homely one, and that in
        his deep, noncommittal way he was very gallant. Perhaps, with a little
        encouragement, he would have gone to see <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester,
        and he might have helped her. The fact that he had done nothing to bring
        this about, made Niel realize how much his own feeling toward that lady
        had changed.
      </p>
      <p>
        It was <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester herself who had changed. Since her
        husband’s death she seemed to have become another woman. For years Niel
        and his uncle, the Dalzells and all her friends, had thought of the
        Captain as a drag upon his wife; a care that drained her and dimmed her
        and kept her from being all that she might be. But without him, she was
        like a ship without ballast, driven hither and thither by every wind.
        She was flighty and perverse. She seemed to have lost her faculty of
        discrimination; her power of easily and graciously keeping everyone in
        his proper place.
      </p>
      <p>
        Ivy Peters had been in Wyoming at the time of Captain Forrester’s
        illness and death⁠—called away by a telegram which announced that oil
        had been discovered near his landholdings. He returned soon after the
        Captain’s funeral, however, and was seen about the Forrester place more
        than ever. As there was nothing to be done on his fields in the winter,
        he had amused himself by pulling down the old barn after office hours.
        One was likely to come upon him, smoking his cigar on the front porch as
        if he owned the place. He often spent the evening there, playing cards
        with <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester or talking about his business projects.
        He had not made his fortune yet, but he was on the way to it.
        Occasionally he took a friend or two, some of the town boys, over to
        dine at <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester’s. The boys’ mothers and sweethearts
        were greatly scandalized. “Now she’s after the young ones,” said Ed
        Elliott’s mother. “She’s getting childish.”
      </p>
      <p>
        At last Niel had a plain talk with <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester. He told
        her that people were gossiping about Ivy’s being there so much. He had
        heard comments even on the street.
      </p>
      <p>
        “But I can’t bother about their talk. They have always talked about me,
        always will. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Peters is my lawyer and my tenant; I have
        to see him, and I’m certainly not going to his office. I can’t sit in
        the house alone every evening and knit. If you came to see me any
        oftener than you do, that would make talk. You are still younger than
        Ivy⁠—and better-looking! Did that never occur to you?”
      </p>
      <p>
        “I wish you wouldn’t talk to me like that,” he said coldly.
        “<abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester, why don’t you go away? to California, to
        people of your own kind. You know this town is no place for you.”
      </p>
      <p>
        “I mean to, just as soon as I can sell this place. It’s all I have, and
        if I leave it to tenants it will run down, and I can’t sell it to
        advantage. That’s why Ivy is here so much, he’s trying to make the place
        presentable; pulling down the old barn that had become an eyesore,
        putting new boards in the porch floor where the old ones had rotted.
        Next summer, I am going to paint the house. Unless I keep the place up,
        I can never get my price for it.” She talked nervously, with exaggerated
        earnestness, as if she were trying to persuade herself.
      </p>
      <p>“And what are you asking for it now, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester?”</p>
      <p>“Twenty thousand dollars.”</p>
      <p>
        “You’ll never get it. At least, not until times have greatly changed.”
      </p>
      <p>
        “That’s what your uncle said. He wouldn’t attempt to sell it for more
        than twelve. That’s why I had to put it into other hands. Times have
        changed, but he doesn’t realize it. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Forrester himself
        told me it would be worth that. Ivy says he can get me twenty thousand,
        or if not, he will take it off my hands as soon as his investments begin
        to bring in returns.”
      </p>
      <p>“And in the meantime, you are simply wasting your life here.”</p>
      <p>
        “Not altogether.” She looked at him with pleading plausibility. “I am
        getting rested after a long strain. And while I wait, I’m finding new
        friends among the young men⁠—those your age, and a little younger. I’ve
        wanted for a long while to do something for the boys in this town, but
        my hands were full. I hate to see them growing up like savages, when all
        they need is a civilized house to come to, and a woman to give them a
        few hints. They’ve never had a chance. You wouldn’t be the boy you are
        if you’d never gone to Boston⁠—and you’ve always had older friends who’d
        seen better days. Suppose you had grown up like Ed Elliot and Joe
        Simpson?”
      </p>
      <p>
        “I flatter myself I wouldn’t be exactly like them, if I had! However,
        there is no use discussing it, if you’ve thought it over and made up
        your mind. I spoke of it because I thought you mightn’t realize how it
        strikes the townspeople.”
      </p>
      <p>
        <br/>
      </p>
      <p>
        “I know!” She tossed her head. Her eyes glittered, but there was no
        mirth in them⁠—it was more like hysterical defiance. “I know; they call
        me the Merry Widow. I rather like it!”
      </p>
      <p>
        Niel left the house without further argument, and though that was three
        weeks ago, he had not been back since. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester had
        called to see his uncle in the meantime. The Judge was as courtly as
        ever in his manner toward her, but he was deeply hurt by her defection,
        and his cherishing care for her would never be revived. He had attended
        to all Captain Forrester’s business for twenty years, and since the
        failure of the Denver bank had never deducted a penny for fees from the
        money entrusted to him. <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Forrester had treated him very
        badly. She had given him no warning. One day Ivy Peters had come into
        the office with a written order from her, requesting that an accounting,
        and all funds and securities, be turned over to him. Since then she had
        never spoken of the matter to the Judge⁠—or to Niel, save in that
        conversation about the sale of the property.
      </p>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
